And so now, about this bodhichitta, then I think many of you all know when there are two ways to
develop this bodhichitta.
One is known as the wishing bodhichitta, and the other is actualizing bodhichitta.
And the wishing bodhichitta is something that sincerely thinks in our heart and mind.
Mind likes to help to other beings.
And the nature of the bodhichitta is also known as is open mind, and free from greedy and selfish.
And generally, according to the Buddha's teaching, we, or in Buddhism, that we not just came here
for the first time in this samsara, or this world,
nor this is not the last time we will behave. We will go on and on.
It's just like turning the page. Our life is like kind of book.
We go turn the page, and page after page, and chapter after chapter, continually goes on.
And how we are going? There are three kinds of ways to travel going through this, according to
Buddhism.
One is with traveling with great understanding, great awareness, with great awareness, the clarity
they are ballooning.
And the other is just going, it's taking away. Wherever it hits, it hits.
There is nothing turning, nothing can do, it's just moving, whatever it does, by chance. That's the
one way.
So two ways. And this, the majority of when we are traveling on this samsara journey,
journey is just kind of almost like blame, the dark. We have no idea what will happen.
Why this is happening is due to the ego clinking, and due to the ignorance.
Ignorant is blocked our clarity. We don't really see anything beside the small area, very local
area.
That's what we see. We see, and everything is just a presumption status, or everything is just a
kind of like imagination.
Hopeful status. Hopeful status. There's nothing that clarity is, because ego clinking is blocking.
And when we have such, this ego clinking is what it does. It always makes self-important.
Our self becomes so important. One's own self is become the number one, and then rest maybe is just
a second,
and then it goes on and on, on. But one own self is so important, important, and that's known as
ego clinking.
Ego clinking or the self-important, and a greed. Greed. And that's how our ego does.
But this body japa is completely opposite. It is selfless. It's greedless. You're breaking that
wall,
that icy, cold wall that we develop, the life after life, self-important, greedy, and ego clinking,
that cocoon, cocoon that we break that shell, and open our self, make way to everyone.
When we have self-kindness, self-fickness, and self-important content, what it does,
we always create so much regiment consumption with narrow thoughts of the negative emotions,
such as, known as ignorance, attachment, anger, jealous, hated thought, then greed,
and making so many different excuses, one after another, whether what the kind of, whatever the
available ego, the ex-chooses that support the self-important self-fulfillment, we make that.
But that in it, even though for a short moment, maybe it serves some purpose, but deep drawn,
we're creating such a negative, very heavy impact that registering in the self-continent
storehouse, according to Buddhism, creating such a deep karma. That karma print is not going to
release immediately. It's not going to remove immediately. Even we use the million terms of,
what's called, detergent. Detergent, or this color fox? What? Clorox bleach. Even in use,
it's not going to go away. It's not going to go away. Once we did that negative things,
this is going to stay. And consequence, when it returns back, going to experience by our self,
we created this. Therefore, in Buddhism, you all know, what we see is in our environment,
our vision is self-created vision that's reflecting back to us. We created, we have to go through
that,
whether it's good or whether it's bad. Therefore, due to this ego clinging, self-important and
selfish and greedy thought, that ego always makes one way or the other directly, indirectly,
and that made ourselves more kind of secluded and eyes and cold and dark and just deep all the time
,
live after life, and then carried so much kind of turbulence of the negative karma and negative
energies and that kind of hurting us and hurting others and that went. In the midst of that
turbulence, there is the kind of like Buddha and that this love and kindness, compassion, light,
the kind of occasionally erupting that it helps us, guiding us, and then it just kind of again
bloat and covered by all thick mists of this habit pattern, negative emotion, negative things like
that.
And that is known as the karmic things. In order to break that shield, break that regiment,
that wall, then the bodhicitta. That is what we need. Bodhicitta is a complete opposite of
self-important. Bodhicitta is a complete opposite of the selfishness and the greedy and that is
complete opposite. If we have the true bodhicitta or even not completely 100% bodhicitta, if
somebody
we have the bodhicitta, we have the, in a global level, we have the world peace. We don't have to
worry anything. We really have the bodhicitta. Even 25% bodhicitta, definitely we will have the
world peace that everybody is talking, every politician, everyone is talking, the world peace,
harmony, and joy. We will have that. Why we are not having the world peace? Peace and all those
measurables that went in history and happen now most of the time is the lack of the bodhicitta
and self-important and the greedy and hungry of the power, then all that. And that's what
all this creation is. So therefore, this bodhicitta is so special and many different levels,
individual level, guru level, family level, and the country level, and we really have the bodhic
itta.
Then the true peace, joy, happiness, and harmony, respect, and appreciation that we
all talk on occasionally, that all comes with this bodhicitta. Therefore, this bodhicitta,
therefore that reason, Buddha and all those great masters practitioners, one voice,
appreciate and emphasize again and again, again and again how this is important.
They, all these great teachers and great masters, they practice bodhicitta, they lived with bodhic
itta,
they prefer bodhicitta, they become the great symbol of the peace and joy and happiness,
to even they gone 14 years ago, still partially is appropriate. And remember,
because it's a power of this bodhicitta. Therefore, this bodhicitta is so special. I mean that,
you know, it's not something that I'm talking, something that you don't know, just reminding us,
as we had this opportunity, we talk, I'm talking that. But this bodhicitta is so special,
special. And therefore, every, all those great practitioners, masters in the teaching said,
before they pay homage, every time they pay homage to the bodhicitta, bodhicitta,
pay homage to bodhicitta, pay homage to bodhicitta. That's why the bodhicitta is, I mean,
this is just, it's so special, so important. Everything is relying on this enlightenment
and everything. So therefore, this is the bodhicitta.
Thank you.